# Lecture 4 Notes

### Drawing Conslusions

- Internal validity: Is study designed well enough to make cause/effect conclusions

- External validity: Applicability and usefulness to the "real world"

Most argue things have internal, but lack external. Especially in psychology.

### Inferential Statistics

- What's the likelyhood that the observed differences are simply the result of chance?

### When Things Go Wrong

- Experimenter Expectancies

- Confirmation Bias: tend ask questions, etc bias towards our expectations/hypothesis

- Robert Rosendahl: Went to public schools, told teachers they did testing on students, told teachers that selected students were going to bloom this year. Guess what? The identified "bloomers" did.

- Demand characteristics: When experimenter unintentionally gives clues as to what they expect out of the experiment, and the subjects then act accordingly

- Hawthorne Effect: Asked to increase worker productivity. Workers knew they were being watched/observed, led to being more productive, etc, and then gradually went back to normal behavior. The act of being observed changes behavior.

- Selective Attrition: When people who start study aren't the same as those who finish the study. Group at end are different than those who started.

- Confounding Variables (aka random variables): systematic decision. confuses us from making proper conclusion.

### Ethical Issues with Human Research

- Belmont Report
  - Respect for persons
  - Research should be beneficent
  - Research should be just

APA Ethics:
  - Informed consent
  - Freedom from coercion
  - Protection from harm
  - Risk-benefit analysis
  - Deception
  - Debriefing
  - Confidentiality
