# Ch. 14: Interlude: Memory API

### 14.1: Types of Memory

Stack memory:
  - Allocations and deallocations of it are managed implicitly by the compiler for you (sometimes called automatic memory)
  - Simply declare a variable to, in turn, declare a piece of memory

Heap memory:
  - Allocations/deallocations handled explicitly by the programmer
  - e.g. `int *x = (int *) malloc(sizeof(int))`

### 14.2 The `malloc()` called

Pass it a size asking for some room on the heap, and it either succeeds and gives you back a pointer to the newly-allocated space, or fails and returns NULL

`sizeof()` is correctly thought about as an compile-time operator

```c
int *x = malloc(10 * sizeof(int));
printf("%d\n", sizeof(x));
```

In the above example, `sizeof()` thinks we are simply asking how big a pointer to an integer is. The below example, does in fact work as expected.

```c
int x[10];
printf("%d\n", sizeof(x));
```

When declaring space for Strings, use the following idiom which gets the length of the string and adds one for the end-of-string character

`malloc(strlen(s) + 1)`

### 14.3: The `free()` Call

To free heap memory that is no longer in use, programmers simply call `free()`

### 14.4: Common Errors

#### Forgetting to allocate memory

Incorrect method:
```c
char *src = "hello";
char *dst; // oops! unallocated
strcpy(dst, src); // segfault and die
```

Correct method:
```c
char *src = "hello";
char *dst = (char *) malloc(strlen(src) + 1);
strcpy(dst, src); // work properly
```

#### Not Allocating Enough Memory

Sometimes called a buffer overflow. In some cases, depending on how malloc is implemented and other details, the below code will often run seemingly correctly.

```c
char *src = "hello";
char *dst = (char *) malloc(strlen(src)); // too small!
strcpy(dst, src); // work properly
```

#### Forgetting to Initialize Allocated Memory

With this error, you call malloc() properly, but forget to fill in some values into your newly-allocated data type.

Program will eventually encouter an _uninitialized read_, where it reads from the heap some data of unknown value.

#### Forgetting to Free Memory

_Memory Leak_: occurs when you forget to free memory

#### Freeing Memory Before You Are Done With It

_Dangling pointer_: program frees memory before it's finished using it

#### Freeing Memory Repeatedly

_Double Free_: When `free()` is passed something other than one of the pointers received from `malloc()` earlier in the program. Result of which is undefined.

#### Calling `free()` Incorrectly

### 14.5: Underlying OS Support

Both `malloc()` and `free()` are library calls

Malloc uses system call `brk` to change the location of the program's break (location of the end of the heap). `sbrk` does something similar but with increments.

`mmap()` creates anonymous memory region w/in your program - region that's not associated with any particular file, but rather with swap space. 
