# Ch. 17: Free-Space Management

free-space management becomes more difficult when the free space you are managing consists of variable-sized units
  - arises in a user-level memory-allocation library (as in malloc() and free())
  - in an OS managing physical memory when using segmentation to implement virtual memory

_External Fragmentation_: the free space gets chopped into little pieces of different sizes and is thus fragmented; subsequent requests may fail because there's no single contiguous space that can satisfy the request - even though the total amount of free space exceeds the size of the request

### 17.1: Assumptions

Some kind of _free list_ is used to implement heap

_Internal Fragmentation_: allocator hands out chunks of memory bigger than that requested, any unasked for space in such a chunk is internal fragmentation

We'll assume once memory is handed out to a client, it cannot be relocated to another location in memory

### 17.2: Low-level Mechanisms

##### Splitting and Coalescing

_Splitting_: If requested size is smaller the existing chunks of memory, the allocator will find a free chunk of memory that can satisfy the request and split it in two.

_Coalescing_: When returning a freed chunk of memory, if the newly-freed space sits right next to one/two existing free chunks, merge them into a single larger free chunk.

##### Tracking the Size of Allocated Regions

Header block stores additional information about chunk
  - size
  - additional pointers
  - magic number to provide additional integrity checking

Note:
`Size of free region = Size of header + size of space allocated to the user`

When user requests N bytes of memory, library searches for a free chunk of size N plus the size of the header

##### Embedding a Free List

### 17.3: Basic Strategies

##### Best Fit

Search through the free list and find chunks that are as big or bigger than the requested size - the return the smallest one.

##### Worst Fit

Find the largest chunk and return the requested amount; keep the remaining chunk on the free list. Thus tries to leave big chunks free instead of lots of small chunks that can arise from a best-fit approach.

##### First Fit

Simply find the first block that's big enough and returns the requested amount to the user. Very fast, but pollutes the beginning of the free list with small objects. Can use _address-based ordering_; by keeping list ordered by the address of the free space, coalescing becomes easier, and fragmentation tends to be reduced.

##### Next Fit

Like first fit but keeps an extra pointer to the location w/in the list where on was looking last.

### 17.4: Other Approaches

Keep a separate list just to manage objects of one (or a few) popular size(s); all other requests are forwarded to a more general memory allocator

_Slab allocator_: When kernel boots up, it allocates a number of object caches for kernel objects that are likely to be requested frequently. When a given cache is running low on free space, it requests some slabs of memory from a more general memory allocator. This also occurs in the other direction when the specialized list is empty.

_Buddy Allocation_: binary buddy allocator - free memory though of as big space of 2^N. When a request for memory is made, the search divides free space by two recursively until a block that's big enough is found (and can't be made smaller).

  - Subject to internal fragmentation
  - When freed, checks buddy for coalesion
  - 
