# Ch. 19: Paging: Faster Translations (TLBs)

_Translation-lookaside Buffer (TLB)_: Part of the chip's memory-management unit (MMU), and is simply a hardware cache of popular virtual -> physical address translations (i.e. Address-translation cache)

### 19.1: TLB Basic Algorithm

1. Extract virtual page number from virtual address, check if the TLB holds the translation for this VPN (if yes, TLB hit)

2. yes? TLB hit. Extract page frame number from relevant TLB entry, concatenate that onto the offset from the original virtual address, and form the desired physical address.

3. no? TLB miss. Hardware accesses the page table to find the translation, and updates the TLB with the translation.

_Spatial Locality_: Elements of array are packed tightly into pages

_Temporal Locality_: Quick re-referencing of memory items in time

### 19.3: Who Handles the TLB Miss?

hardware-managed TLBs used fixed multi-level page tables.

Modern architectures have what is known as a _software-managed TLB_.
  - On TLB miss, hardware simply raises an exception, which pauses the current instruction stream, raises the privilege level to kernel mode, and jumps to a trap handler.
    - Must be sure the `return-from-trap` instruction resumes at the instruction that caused the trap, not the one following it.
    - OS needs to be extra careful not to cause infinite chain of TLB misses to occur. solutions include keeping TLB miss handlers in physical memory.

### 19.4: TLB Contents: What's In There?

Hardware TLB might have 32, 64, or 128 entries and be _fully associative_ (any given translation can be anywhere in the TLB, and the hardware will search the entire TLB in parallel to find the desired translation)
  - TLB entry e.g. VPN | PFN | other bits

### 19.5: TLB Issue: Context Switches

_Address Space Identifier (ASID)_: field in the TLB that acts as a process identifier (PID), but usually has fewer bits.

### 19.6: Issue: Replacement Policy

_Least-recently-used (LRU)_
