# Ch. 20: Paging: Smaller Tables

With 32-bit address space (2^32 bytes), 4KB (2^12 byte) pages and a 4-byte page-table entry. At roughly one million virtual pages (2^32/2^12), our page table is roughly 4MB in size.

_Crux_: Most important part of an issue

### 20.1: Simple Solution: Bigger Pages

Reduces size of page table as we now have fewer entries, but big pages lead to waste w/in each page (internal fragmentation).

### 20.2: Hybrid Approach: Paging and Segments

One page table per logical segment (e.g. one for code, heap, and stack)

Use base not to point to the segment itself but rather to hold the physical address of the page table of that segment. Bound register is used to indicate end of page table.

Results in segmentation as we have varying sizes of page tables

### 20.3: Multi-level Page Tables

Turns linear page table into something like a tree

Chop up page table into page-sized units; then, if an entire page of PTEs is invalid, don't allocate that page of the page table at all. Use _page directory_ to track whether page of page table is valid, or where it is in memory.

_Page Directory_:Has page directory entires (PDE): valid bit, page frame number

Multi-level adds _level of indirection_ through the use of the page directory (allows for placement of pages anywhere in memory)

Cons are that TLB misses require two loads from memory will be required to get the right translation information from the page table (time-space trade-off).

#### More Than Two Levels

Goal: Each piece of page table fit w/in single page

### 20.4: Inverted Page Tables

Keep single page table that has an entry for each physical page of the system. The entry tells us which process is using this page, and which virtual it maps to this physical page.

Often employ hash table to give fast lookups

### 20.5: Swapping Page Tables to Disk

Some systems place page tables in _kernel virtual memory_, allowing the system to _swap_ some of these page tables to disk when memory pressure gets a little too tight.
