# Ch. 22: Beyond Physical Memory: Policies

### 22.1: Cache Management

Average memory access time (AMAT): (Phit * Tm) + (Pmiss * Td)

### The Optimal Replacement Policy

Simple approach that replaces the page that will be accessed furthest in the future is the optimal policy

Requires that we can look into the future...

### 22.3: A Simple Policy -- FIFO

### 22.4: Random

### 22.5: Using History -- LRU

Metric could use:
  - Frequency
  - Recency

These policies are based on _Principle of Locality_

LFU/LRU

### 22.6: Workload Analysis

No-locality workload performs the same w/ all of the non-optimal policies

With large enough cache size, all polices converge to 100% hit rate when all values are in cache

### 22.8: Approximating LRU

When finding the least-recently-used, we would want to update each page's time field when accessed. Yet upon removal, we'd have to scan all pages to find the LRU. We should rather just approximate this.

Hardware uses _use bit_ (also known as reference bit). When page is referenced (read/written), the bit is set by hardware to 1. Hardware never clears the bit, though -- that's the responsibility of the OS.

OS uses _clock algo_ - imagine all pages in circular list, OS iterates through, checking for 1. If 1, we know it was used recently and thus we set to 0. Keep iterating until we find 0.

### 22.9: Considering Dirty Pages

Modification to clock algo

If page has been modified while in memory (and thus dirty), it must be written back to disk to evict it, which is expensive. Thus, some VM systems prefer to evict clean pages over dirty.

### 22.10: Other VM Policies

We also require _page selection_ policy -- Often the OS simply uses _demand paging_: OS bring pages into memory when it's accessed.

Prefetching and clustering of pages are also common policies VM

### 22.11: Thrashing

When running processes simply demand more memory than available physical memory - the system will be constantly paging, also known as Thrashing.

_Admission Control_: system could decide not to run subset of processes - states that it's sometimes better to do less work well than more work poorly.
