# Ch. 7: Scheduling: Introduction

### 7.2: Scheduling Metrics

_Turnaround time_: the time at which the job finally completes minus the time at which the job arrived in the system

### 7.3: First In, First Out (FIFO)

_Convoy Effect_: a number of relatively-short potential consumers of a resource get queued behind a heavyweight resource consumer

### 7.4: Shortest Job First

Self explanatory, but issues when we relax the assumption that all jobs arise at the same time

### 7.5: Shortest Time-to-Completion First

_Preemptive_: willing to stop one process from running in order to run another

Any time a new job enters the system, it determines of the remaining jobs and new job, which has the least time left, and then schedules that one

_Response Time_: the time from when a job arrives in a system to the first time it is scheduled

### 7.6: Round Robin

Instead of running jobs to completion, RR runs a job for a time slice (sometimes called a scheduling quantum) and then switches to the next job in the run queue

Note that the length of a time slice must be a multiple of the timer-interrupt period

The general technique of amortization is commonly used in systems when there is a fixed cost to some operation. By incurring that cost less often (i.e., by performing the operation fewer times), the total cost to the system is reduced.

A shorter time slice makes for a better response-time metric, but there becomes a point where context switching will dominate overall performance. Thus, the time slice should be long enough to amortize the cost of switching without making it so long that the system is no longer responsive.

RR is one of the worst policies if turnaround time is our metric.

A fair policy, one that evenly divides CPU among active processes on a small time scale, will perform poorly on metrics like turnaround time.

### 7.7: Incorporating IO

Common approach is to treat each split of P(start) - P(IO) as a new job.
