# Scheduling: Multi-Level Feedback Queue

# 8.1: MLFQ: Basic Rules

MLFQ has a number of distinct queues, each assigned a different priority level. At any given time, a job that is ready to run is on a single queue. MLFQ uses priorities to decide which job should run at a given time: a job with higher priority (i.e., a job on a higher queue) is chosen to run.

MLFQ varies the priority of a job based on its observed behavior.

Rule 1: If Priority(A) > Priority(B), A runs (B doesn't). Rule 2: If Priority(A) = Priority(B), A & B run in RR.

# 8.2: Attempt #1: How to Change Priority

_Rule 3_: When a job enters the system, it's placed at the highest priority _Rule 4a_: If the job uses up an entire time slice while running, its priority is reduced _Rule 4b_: If a job gives up the CPU before the time slice is up, it stays at the same priority level

Issues:

```
 - Starvation; if too many interactive jobs on the system, they will combine to use all of the CPU time
 - Can be gamed
 - Programs can change behavior over time
```

# 8.3: Attempt #2: The Priority Boost

To avoid starvation, and fix behavior changes -

_Rule 5_: After some time period S, move all the jobs in the system to the topmost queue.

# 8.4: Attempt #3: Better Accounting

To prevent gaming, scheduler should keep track of CPU time at each level of the MLFQ

_Rule 4_: Once a job uses up its time allotment at a given level (regardless of how many times it has given up the CPU), its priority is reduced (i.e., it moves down one queue).

# 8.5: Tuning MLFQ and Other Issues

Users can give OS 'advice' with utilities like nice - explicitly state which applications should be given higher priority
