# asdf Lecture

## A Hubristic Character

Humans trying to be Gods, but really we're finite beings. This gives strong desire for the infinite. (Become immortal)


## Overhuman vs. Posthuman
So let's stop complaining about our situation, accept that we're "earthbound", terrestrial creatures, and just live life, without desire for infinite/a god.
  - Dr. Frankenstein was trapped in this illusion.
  - Overhuman is not posthuman, he doesn't want to become infinite — "stay true to the earth, don't believe talk of over-earthly hopes"

"If the overhuman is in sense of the earth, it should mean the overhuman should take care of the earth"

## Neither a God Nor a Human

"The human is a rope, "

## Posthuman

## Tony Morrison

The bird is not a real bird, it's a metaphor

Twitter may be a way to kill a language — limits characters

Language is fragile, succeptable to death

It [language] must be protected, from those who want to turn language into mere entertainment

For Morrison, the supreme destination of language isn't to entertain, but to create and access the ineffable (unspeakable).
  - ineffable: something that you can't turn into a fable
  - paradox in that Toni herself wants to create stories, fables, that will unavoidably fail, as the fables deal with the ineffable
  - It's like trying to measure a black hole — an important writer

## Lovecraft, Monsters

When we really want to understand Lovecraft's novels, need to ack that he's creating a language to express a monster

About a "thing" (real, immaginary)

## Birds

Songbird, nightinggale, poetry is the only way to fly away from the world
  - the nightinggale is the imaginary embodiment of this attempt to escape death

Albatrose, nightinggale, and toni's bird similarities (all care abt life, don't despise animals they write about, use as a **literary** way to take care of life)
  - morrison's is language
    - interested in life. language is living thing.
  - courage's is poetry
  - keit's is immortality

## "O Happy Living Things"

More than an albatrose, doesn't mean he doesn't care about life

the courage, understands that we can't kill it [arbatrose]. that we have to consider love
  - was converted, mind shifts

Keits knows that the voice of the nightinggale is composed of the voice of every nightinggale
  - the essence, is that it's an abstraction, it's composed of real nightinggales that lived and died.
  - he knows it's a metaphor, but it's a precarious one.
  - his goal is to take death into consideration. to escape death.

## Imagination

What is the place of imagination in the process of writing?

## Kundera

"The Novel and the Exploration of Existance"

The experience of an imaginary world — it's surreal, I see, I feel, I watch — but it's imaginary

Existance is the realm of human possibilities

## Keats; Negative capability

Keats calls for the necessity to stay in uncertainties

Thanks to imagination, the poet, the reader, can contemplate the possibilities other than the near fear of death.

The nightinggale is the embodiment of this possibility, something that might be able to escape death
