# Chapter 3

## A Narrative

## A Bird is a Word

Tony morrison saying writer is "blind person"

"Is the bird I'm holding living, or dead?" = Is our language living or dead?
  - What is our relation w/ words?

What is the function or writers in the current state of the world

Language can die.

Yet for linguists, it's a system

Morrison thinks of language as a system, partly as a living thing, but mostly as agency - an act w/ concequences

The problem is what we do w/ language

Are we going to lie?

## Zombie Language

"like statist (the state) language, censored and censoring"
  - no longer capable of expressing things. a dead language.

Language is dead when this language isn't able to create new things

Life of language is the capacity to express new thoughts, ideas

## Living Language

"The vitality of langue lies in its ability to lin the actual, imagined and possible lives of its readers"

Why does language become censored and censoring

## The Political Function of Narratives

"lethal discourses of exclusion blocking access to cognition for both the excluder and the excluded"

First goal: Give voice to those who don't have voice

Not efficient enough to accuse

Tony's goal was to go beyond accusing. To change the perception of the excluder to go beyond.

How to create a language to speak w/ everybody? Without lying?

Tony doesn't believe langauge/literature can't stop racism, war, slavery
  - Its force, its felicity is in its reach toward the ineffable (something we can't express w/ words)

History is written by the winner. Important to know the thoughts of those who couldn't write history.
  - Literature has the power to express what the victims couldn't say

"Language alone protects us from the scariness of things w/ no names"
  - We are scared by something when we can't identify this thing
  - W/ language, we're able to put a name on our fear
  - Traumatic events are things w/ no names

## The Political Function of Narratives (2)

Function of morrison's writings is to express something that was never recorded.

Her goal was to express something that we can't express

Languagae is the best mediation between unexpressed events, unrecorded events

## Together

"Could someone tell us what is life? What is death?"

"It is in your hands"
  - whatever the case, it's your responsibility

People aren't waiting for a moral lesson, they want a good fiction

## Narrative is a Collective Work

Never written by just one person

The old, blind, wise women and young people form a community

Need to take into consideration our capacity to create a new narrative

Collective work coming from different cultures,

Allows us to become people of
